[THEME MUSIC]
GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
I'm George Noory.
It's called the Institute
for Exoconsciousness.
It's headed up by a woman by
the name of Rebecca Hardcastle.
NARRATOR: Do humans
have an innate ability
to experience
extraterrestrial contact?
That is the question that
motivated Rebecca Hardcastle
Wright to found the Institute
for Exoconsciousness.
There, she and other researchers
study extraterrestrial origins,
dimensions, and the ability
of human consciousness
to connect with them.
The author of "Exoconsciousness,
Your 21st Century Mind,"
Rebecca explains
that an ability once
considered a superpower is
actually within everyone's
reach today, on Beyond Belief.
NOORY: Rebecca,
you have the luxury
of knowing someone who
has since passed on,
a dear friend of all of ours,
astronaut Edgar Mitchell.
One of a kind.
REBECCA HARDCASTLE
WRIGHT: I did.
I worked for five years,
around five years,
for Edgar's organization
called Quantrek.
Edgar founded the Institute
of Noetic Sciences,
and then moved on from there
to go into Zero Point Energy
research, which became
Quantrek organization.
And I worked with
Edgar and his team
of international scientists.
NOORY: We're going to talk a
lot about Edgar on this program,
but you had an experience
as a little girl that
shaped your life.
What happened to you?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: My earliest
memory is of three years old,
of be taken to star
school to be on board,
I guess, I would say
a craft at that point,
that I was in another dimension.
I was connecting
and communicating
with extraterrestrials.
And I maintain that, most
of my early childhood,
that went through
somewhat of a progression
as I moved through growing
up and my acculturation.
I had I would call extra
dimensional experiences
as an early childhood
ET experiencer.
And I would like
to say that there
are many of us who came in as
early childhood experiencers.
But I also had what I call an
intra-dimensional experience
as a child, where I was
literally below the ground.
NOORY: Really?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Yes.
NOORY: Like in a
hell type place?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: No.
Like in an Earth
dimension type place.
And I was there
quite frequently.
I lived in a small town called
Clarksburg, West Virginia.
NOORY: Know it well.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Gray Barker.
Men in Black.
NOORY: I get callers
from there all the time.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
I'm sure you do.
Full of mines, and
there's a little town
there called Bridgeport,
with a golf course.
You can run your golf
cart on the golf course
and hear the hollow
ground underneath.
NOORY: Then you're through the
whole city, just like that.
Well, with this experience, did
you share it with other people
when you were younger?
And if you did, what
was their reaction?
There's something wrong with
our little girl, Rebecca?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
I did share some.
But for me, my early experiences
I would label more organic.
They were just
part of who I was.
I was in the ground.
I was above the ground.
I was with my family.
I had literally a
multi-dimensional childhood.
It was free.
It was organic.
It was easy.
Actually, George, it was
only when I got married,
had children, moved
into adulthood,
became part of-- did
you know Ruth Hover?
NOORY: Yes.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: OK.
Ruth was my mentor, and I
attended her experiencer group
in Fountain Hills
for many years.
During that part, I
really began to sort
of dissect what was
happening to me,
analyze it, look at it from
every possible perspective,
talk to other experiencers.
And sometimes I was comfortable,
sometimes was uncomfortable.
But the experiences
continued until today.
I think I'm back more to
the childhood, organic,
easy flowing connection.
NOORY: What have you
concluded about what
has happened to you in
this journey you're on?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
What I've concluded
is I founded the Institute
for Exoconsciousness
because I believe that every
human-- not some humans
but every human-- has
the innate ability
to connect and communicate with
extraterrestrials, that we have
within our consciousness, I
would call it exoconsciousness,
that we have that ability, that
consciousness beyond our brain,
to move interdimensionally
as humans.
And some of us identify
different ET races,
some of us don't.
Some of us just feel
that it's an experience.
They don't really have a label
for it, but that this is really
an essence of one of the
things that makes us human.
NOORY: Edgar Mitchell, Apollo
14, walked on the moon.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Nine hours.
NOORY: Had an incredible
views on the universe.
Let's take a look at that first.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
EDGAR MITCHELL: But certainly,
life in the universe
seems to be ubiquitous.
The notion that we are
alone in the universe
is clearly absurd, particularly
with the modern Hubble
telescope pictures.
We start to see the
vastness of the universe
and the vast galaxies and
galactic clusters filling
all of space that we can
observe, far beyond anything
we've imagined before
having those pictures.
And so it puts a new
impetus on the smallness
of our little galaxy and
our little solar system,
that it's just a
tiny, little speck
of sand in the greatness
of all that's around us.
And the likelihood that
we're the only living
substance in all of this
is absolutely absurd.
[END PLAYBACK]
NOORY: Rebecca, how right
he was about the universe.
And his trip to the
moon on Apollo 14
really changed his
life too, where
he started doing mind
experiments, the Noetic
Institute he formed
when he came back.
And we're going to get
into a lot of that,
but he told me once
on Coast to Coast--
and I'll never forget it--
when I asked him specifically
about extraterrestrial life.
And I said, did you see
anything on the moon?
Come on tell me.
Tell me.
Because we heard all these
stories about Apollo 11
and Neil Armstrong
and Buzz Aldrin.
And he said, George, I'm
going to tell you two things.
One, I never saw
anything on the moon,
and I would tell you if I did.
I didn't see anything unusual.
But I will tell you
this, I have been
told by key members of
government and military
that we're being visited,
that we've been visited,
and I believe them, and
that's good enough for me.
And that was so
provocative to me,
to be able to hear a
real astronaut, who
walked on the moon,
actually tell you,
I believe we have
extraterrestrials
in this universe,
we're being visited,
and I've been told that.
So I believe him.
I've always wondered, did these
people tell him the truth?
I sure hope so.
What do you think?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: I think
for Edgar, it was the truth.
And working with
Edgar, I began to see
how he approached the subject
of ufology, how he approached
the subject of ETs.
It was always very measured.
NOORY: Deliberate.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Deliberate.
Somewhat conservative,
I would say.
He never made any
startling claims.
Except he did make
They were very--
NOORY: Just by saying it,
it was a startling claim.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: By say
it, it was a startling claim.
But he never attached
any ornaments
to it, any labels or--
NOORY: And he didn't embellish.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: And
he didn't scare people.
So I think for Edgar, there was
something inside of him that
resonated with this as truth.
When people spoke with
him, you know, he was very,
very-- he went to
the Cape once a month
for training throughout
his life, probably
up until the end of his life.
So I think that was
what spoke with him.
The other piece for
me, personally, I
would say, was the fact
that Edgar reached out
to me, an ET experiencer,
a woman who had just
written a book on consciousness,
and brought me into his group.
To me, that spoke volumes.
NOORY: Absolutely.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: I
wasn't on a faculty.
I mean, I do teach, but
I wasn't on the faculty
of a major university
in science,
but I was a researcher.
But I think for Edgar,
the thing for him
was I was an experiencer.
One of the things we did
with Quantrek, George,
was Edgar, at the end Quantrek,
which has now been closed,
when we began to integrate Zero
Point Energy, consciousness,
and the extraterrestrial
presence.
NOORY: All three.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: All three.
And for a scientist
and an astronaut
to go forward publicly
and talk about--
NOORY: Oh, he
stuck now his neck.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: He
stuck his neck out.
And we at the time were working
with well-known scientists.
Bernie Haisch was doing
Zero Point Energy with us.
People who were ET
experiencers were calling us
with inventions.
It was so exciting.
I'm actually moving
that into my work now.
NOORY: Good for you.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
But he began to see
that this piece is foundational,
the extraterrestrial piece.
NOORY: When he wrote his
book, The Way of the Explorer,
which was my first
association with him,
when I was doing my local
radio show in St. Louis,
I was the Nighthawk,
and I had him on.
We just hit it off, and we
stayed friends for a long time.
Sat next to him for dinner
at one of Stephen Bassett's
Washington DC events.
And we stayed close.
But he told me some
profound things
about how that
journey to the moon
changed his life, consciously
and subconsciously.
And he came back, formed
the Noetic Institute,
really pushed it
and developed it.
He was a big believer
in consciousness.
And as we get into
this with you today,
Rebecca, let's take one
more look at Edgar Mitchell.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
MITCHELL: The conclusions,
concerning consciousness,
are still incomplete.
But it's clearly rooted in
the quantum nature of things.
And for the last 80 years
in the 20th century,
the physicists have insisted
that quantum mechanics only
pertained to subatomic matter.
And they continued to adhere
to the Cartesian dualism that
said body, mind,
physicality, spirituality
are different realms of
reality that don't interact.
And it turned out
to be dead wrong.
It's just not the case, that the
quantum entanglement phenomena
causes effects at all
scale sizes of nature,
not just the subatomic realm.
[END PLAYBACK]
NOORY: You know, and as
much as you and I miss him,
he lives on video tape
forever, doesn't he?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: He does.
And one of the things I came
to deeply respect about Edgar
was he not only stuck
his neck out, as you say,
around the extraterrestrial
presence issue,
he stuck his neck out
around quantum science.
NOORY: Yes.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: When
I worked with Edgar,
I had the opportunity to
work with many consciousness
scientists in a way that I
had never believed possible.
I had written this book.
I had gone into Stuart
Hameroff, Penrose.
I'd gone into all
these-- David Chalmers--
I'd gone in to all these
consciousness scientists.
NOORY: The giants.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
And with Edgar,
we were emailing.
I was on discussion
boards with them.
I was talking with him.
It was a steep learning curve.
I mean, I just want
to be clear that there
was a lot of humility
involved in that,
because there was a lot of
science to learn in that.
What Edgar did was he was
trying to find the math in order
to unite metaphysics
and science.
NOORY: He wanted that.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: He
wanted that so desperately.
NOORY: And he knew it was there.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
He knew it was there.
And one of the ways he found
it was a German scientist
named Walter Schempp.
I don't know if you know of him.
NOORY: I don't know of him.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
Walter Schempp in 1992
wrote the first paper on
the quantum hologram, which
then became Edgar's work
in Quantrek on the quantum
hologram, and Walter Schempp
was part of the team.
And it was as though-- it's kind
of like Hameroff and Penrose.
It's that beautiful,
you know, the science
and the anesthesiologist.
For Edgar it was the astronaut
and the mathematician,
because Walter Schempp
was a mathematician.
NOORY: Sounds like one
of the Three Stooges.
Schempp.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Actually,
he was related to Kepler.
NOORY: Really?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Yes.
Fascinating.
NOORY: Geniuses of our time.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
Absolute genius.
And I think this
gave Edgar a place
to say, let's take
this information,
and let's move it forward.
Let's see where we
can go with this.
Let's see what the quantum
field-- and since then, George,
I have come to have a
deep and abiding respect
for consciousness scientists.
It's not an easy path.
NOORY: It's not.
Subject to ridicule.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Subject to
so much academic and scientific
ridicule.
I have dear friends
who I met through Edgar
who are independent scientists.
And maybe worked for
a while with ions
and then have moved
out on their own.
NOORY: Why are they ridiculed?
Because they
believe that there's
something else in this
universe that science
has yet been able to explain?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
Science is a very
conservative, deliberate,
metric-based topic,
study, field.
And if you don't
adhere to that, and you
begin to bring in
new information--
so Newtonian science,
I would say, equated
to a rather closed system.
This works.
We know it works.
We can be engineers.
We can build bridges.
We can send rockets into
space with this science.
Why do we need this?
Why do we need quantum?
So I think for this generation
of quantum sciences,
it's all about we have
to bring in the proof.
It's not unlike ufology.
UFOlogists are always
bringing-- this
is the piece I'm going
to bring to the table.
Will you please look at it?
Sometimes they do,
sometimes they don't.
NOORY: Sometimes they don't.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: But the
universities as a whole
have not been ready
to embrace that.
I feel like there's so
many closed systems today
that are collapsing,
that it's going
to be an opening for
people in ufology,
for people in consciousness,
scientists, for people
in spirituality to say,
we have an open system.
This is the information
that's coming to us.
I'm part of that movement.
My work in exoconsciousness
is part of that.
NOORY: Rebecca, tell me about
your work, exoconsciousness.
Exactly what does that mean?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
Exoconsciousness,
if I can tell a little
story, came to me--
I was a single mother
raising my children.
NOORY: Not easy.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Not easy.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: And my
alarm went off one morning.
I'd been studying
with Ruth Hover.
I'd been reading every
book I could read.
I've been gone in to
consciousness scientists.
I was part of the
Phoenix Lights group.
NOORY: Were you?
With Lynne Kitei?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
With Lynne Kitei.
All good friends.
I did not see the craft.
NOORY: Ah!
How could you miss
a mile-long craft?
That's another story.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
And so one morning,
my alarm went off.
And I was-- remember the
alarm, hit the alarm,
turning off the old clock radio?
NOORY: I hate waking
up to an alarm.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
Yeah, I love that.
NOORY: I like it when
your body wakes you up.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: I
know, and the music,
and all the good sounds
coming from there.
And I remember distinctly,
I just fell back
against my pillow and thought,
OK, I've got five minutes.
I've got lunches to pack.
I've got to get to work.
I've got to get
my kids to school.
We've got to get this train.
I'm the locomotive.
Got to get this train moving.
Hope all the wheels are
around this morning.
NOORY: Get it going fast.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
It's going fast.
And as I leaned back
against my pillow,
this word came into
my mind, literally.
If you've read the
Bible, "And the Word
became flesh and
dwelt among us,"
I had that kind of experience.
NOORY: An epiphany.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Yes.
And literally, a word,
exoconsciousness.
And I knew from then
that that was the word
that my work was to embody.
NOORY: Fascinating.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
So I got busy,
and I started to think
about how do I define this?
And so initially,
I defined it as
the extraterrestrial--
underlined--
origins, dimensions,
and abilities
of human consciousness.
NOORY: And then you
just combined it, huh?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: And
I combined all that
into an academic study, wrote
the book, began my research,
actually began my research
with the book, in that way.
And then as I began
to work with Quantrek,
I moved to Washington DC.
And in Washington
DC, I began to see
that while my first definition
held a lot of academic weight,
I needed to broaden
the definition,
to reach out into where we were
today with ufology, because we
were at a different place than
we were in 2000, for example,
or '96 or whatever.
NOORY: And five years from
now we'll be even higher.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Absolutely.
NOORY: Or should be.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
So what I did was
I founded the Institute
for Exoconsciousness,
and I defined its mission
as bringing together
ET experiencers and coming
forth with the information
that every human, every
human, has the innate ability
to connect and communicate
with extraterrestrials.
NOORY: So would you like
these ET contactees, when
they get together--
would you like
them to, when they
talk about this,
do they express a similar thing
that has happened to them?
Or are they all different?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Consciousness
is a lived experience.
Consciousness equals
lived experience.
It's the meaning that
you make of your life.
It's not a binary code that is
put into you, in other words.
So when people do get
together as experiencers
and talk about
what has happened,
there, for sure,
is some meeting.
NOORY: And they're
emotional, aren't they?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
And it's emotional.
But it's also very individual.
And one of the
things I feel ufology
is moving into at this point
is we've dissected for so long,
we have analyzed and taken
apart experiencers for so long,
we've analyzed craft studies for
so long, it's time now to say,
I'm an ET experiencer.
What am I going to do with it?
NOORY: We've got some
emails in for you.
James from the Bronx in
New York, "What can I
do in my daily life to
become exoconscious?"
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
Exoconsciousness
is a lived experience.
And because of that,
it's something that
unfolds in your life over time.
It's not just an event.
A lot of us are being
triggered by events.
This event happened,
it's affecting me.
Oftentimes with
exoconsciousness,
you have a visitation, you
see an orb, you see a UFO,
you see a movie,
you read a book.
Those are events.
It's what happens
after that event, how
that begins to integrate
into your identity.
Actually, I believe that
humans have an ET identity--
and we can talk about that--
an ET identity that is flavored
by what their personality is.
And so what we do is,
in exoconsciousness,
is we begin to orient our
life around that event,
around that happening, around
the meaning that experience
brought to them, and
then begin to allow
our psychic intelligence to
begin to move us in directions,
bring opportunities to us,
give us food for thought,
maybe downloads of information
that we haven't seen before.
We move into psychic
intelligence.
We move into living our life
via analogies, via symbolism.
We begin to operate
at a level of life
where we're not a brain,
we're not a machine--
and I'm actually
writing my next book
on the exoconscious human--
we're not a machine.
We are an exoconscious human.
And as such, we live and
have our being and identity
within a consciousness field
that communicates with us.
And some of that is ET.
NOORY: Marla from
Los Angeles, she
wants to contact the ET groups
through exoconsciousness.
How does she do that?
She wants to be a member.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: I have people
who contact me with emails.
And sometimes they're
quite heart-rendering.
I sat in my backyard-- I'm
sure you've heard them, too.
I sat in my backyard
for 10 years.
They never show up.
I'm so depressed.
And all I can say at that point
is, work on your consciousness,
work on your psychic
ability, find a group
that you can relate to which
is part of the mission--
NOORY: Which is
part of what you do.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Which
is part of the Institute
for Exoconsciousness.
Find a group.
Learn the language,
because sometimes we're
having an experience
but we've blocked it
because we don't have the
language to talk about it.
We're creating
language right now.
The Institute for
Exoconsciousness
is creating language.
ET experiencer groups
Word is very important
because that's
how we frame and give reality
to what's happening to us.
NOORY: Rebecca, what do
you think is happening?
What's the bottom
line here, with that
the ET contact, with the
tapping in of consciousness?
What's happening to us?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
I think it's not
unlike what's happened to humans
at other points of their life.
I was just recently in the
Berkshires at a conference,
and I couldn't help but feel
like I was-- in Massachusetts,
where Massachusetts and New
York meet-- that I was standing
on a ground that had
been occupied by Quakers,
by Shakers, by-- Sufis
are there-- by-- the Great
Awakening was there.
There's always been this
force within human nature
that has propelled
us into wanting
to know who we are as humans.
And that means moving out into
the field of consciousness.
For some people, it
means the Genome Project.
For other people it means
technology implants.
For ET experiencers,
it means moving out
into that field
of consciousness.
And I think within religion,
within different times,
there's been almost
like tsunamis
of awakening of people.
And we're in a
big one right now.
NOORY: To someone who
does not tap into this,
does not use consciousness
in their day to day living,
are they missing something?
Is there some void
in their life?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: I would say
every human uses consciousness.
Many people attribute their
consciousness to their brain.
You know, oh my golly,
I'm going to have
Alzheimer's or whatever,
that my consciousness lives
inside this bony structure.
Exoconsciousness does
not believe that.
Exoconsciousness is part of
the field of consciousness
scientists that
says, oh my golly,
you're missing 75% of
your brain and you're
doing just fine as an adult?
How'd that happen?
NOORY: How did that happen?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
How did that happen?
Obviously,
consciousness is-- thank
you Rupert-- a morphic
field, somewhere beyond,
that our entire body
is participating in.
So I think for people who are
exoconscious, for people who
are ET experiencers,
just having the courage
and being willing to be in
community with other people who
are having the courage
to step out and say,
I've had these experiences,
that's how you go there.
NOORY: For people who want
to get a hold of you so,
I don't have to answer 1,000
e-mails, how do they find you?
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
Exoconsciousness.com.
I'm on Facebook.
NOORY: And here's the book.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: I'm
on all social media.
NOORY: By Rebecca Hardcastle.
Rebecca, I'm so glad
you had that opportunity
to know Edgar Mitchell.
He was definitely one of a kind.
And some of the things that
he has imparted to you,
you share with us.
And thank you for that.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT: Thank you.
NOORY: Thanks for
being on the program.
HARDCASTLE WRIGHT:
Thanks you for having me.
NOORY: Consciousness,
a powerful tool
that you should use
every day of your life.
I'm George Noory, and thank
you for watching Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]